Debugger
========

The built-in debugger will step in on protection violations, often
indicating a bug. It contains a scrollable stack, where all values are
checked against the source line table and will print the source file, line
and approximate method name using the symbol table.

Tracing
-------
There is a step-debugger available also, which can be activated by
setting EFLAGS.TF (the trap flag).

Common procedure
----------------


The current procedure followed for debugging is:


  Altering DEBUG flags in the source files. They generally have values
  from 0 to 4, where 4 often includes calls to 'more' (pmode)
  or int 0x16 in realmode, which allows to inspect the output before
  it scrolls off the screen (note that realmode scrolling does not remove
  information from the screen, generally, but rather, prints it beyond
  the visible page).


Finding code locations:
-----------------------

- Exceptions:

  These provide cs:eip and stack information.
  The eip location is printed as both the segment relative (runtime)
  offset) or as the physical address depending on whether pmode was
  entered using a flat code segment.

- QEMu logging:

  control-alt-2, type ''log in_asm'', control-alt-1, wait for the error
  condition. Shift back to control-alt-2 and run ''quit'', to make sure
  the logfile (''qemu.log'') is flushed to disk.

The addresses here are the physical addresses (cs.base + eip).

The memory code offset can be found by several means:

  The kernel load address is the base of ''cs'' and can be
  found with the shell command ''gdt'', or with ''mem -k -a''.
  It is also printed during kernel boot. However this information
  scrolls out of place, so recompiling with DEBUG set to a higher
  level, enabling keystrokes (see kernel.s), or ''DEBUG_KERNEL_REALMODE''
  (see ''realmode.s''), allows to note the address.

  The load offset depends on the bootloader size aswell as entries
  in the RAMDISK before the kernel image. At current, the kernel
  is the first image, and the bootloader is stable. It does find
  a higher segment aligned to 16kb or so, so that small bootloader
  changes won't change the address.

  At current this address is ''0x0013000''.


Disassembly
-----------

  The alias ''dk'' (and ''dk16'' for realmode code) provide a disassembly
  of the object file which is based on address 0.

  Translating the runtime (physical) address to the image address is
  done by subtracting the kernel load address, such as:

	perl -e 'printf "%x\n", ADDRESS - 0x11200'

  followed by running ''dk'' and searching for the address label.
  The opcodes printed in an exception serve to doublecheck.

  In the disassembly symbols appear, so scrolling up to find the nearest
  label allows to find the proper source.

  The macro 'w' serves to quickly find labels in the kernel source
  to locate the proper file.

  At current the kernel is not relocated to high memory which would allow
  for a load address aligned on a boundary greater than the size of the kernel.

Adding debug statements
-----------------------

  Several macros (''DEBUG, DEBUG_DWORD, DEBUG_REGSTORE/REGDIFF, BREAKPOINT'')
  are defined which do not generally alter EFLAGS or other registers.

  Since restarting the OS is done within seconds, typing 'DEBUG_DWORD eax'
  in the source file, followed by a save and a history-execution of
  make && qemu, allow for equally fast debugging as can be done with
  an IDE.

Using GDB Remote Debugging
==========================
For VMWare, add the line
	debugStub.listen.guest32 = "TRUE"
to the .vmx file. Note that it uses port 8832.

See [http://www.reactos.org/wiki/GDB] for more details.

The .gdbinit file contains the setup required:
	cd kernel/
	file kernel.obj.debug
	target remote localhost:8832
	continue
The ''cd'' line makes sure that the source files can be located.
The ''file'' line designates the binary that is executing in the VM.
The ''target'' line specifies the debugging connection to the VM.
The ''continue'' line makes sure that the kernel continues to run once GDB is
running.

All this allows to simply run ''gdb'' in the top level project directory.
You will notice on the first run, that there are likely errors due to the
''.gdbinit'' not being executed. GDB will say what to do; add a line like this
to ~/.gdbinit:
	add-auto-load-safe-path /cygdrive/c/code/qure/.gdbinit


To quit the debugger without terminating the VM, first type ''control-C'',
followed by ''detach'' before running ''quit'' in GDB.

The ''kernel/Makefile'' produces the ''kernel/kernel.obj.debug'', which is
adjusted: it is a copy of ''kernel/kernel.obj'' with the VMA/LMA/image addresses
adjusted to the kernel load address (currently ''0x13000''). The ''.stab'' section
has also been modified using ''build/coff'', since this is not supported by objcopy.


Shell
=====

Useful shell commands for Debugging
---------------------
The following commands can be found in the debugging section of the ''help'' command.

- ''int 3''
  invokes the debugger. Press key:
  * 'c' to continue and return to the shell
  * 'm' to inspect mutexes
  * 'p' to show the process list
  * 's' to show the schedule (same as ''ps'' in the shell)
  * 't' to trace (experimental)

- ''breakpoint''
  set a code or memory write breakpoint

- ''gpf''
  generate a protection fault - the legacy way to invoke the debugger.

- ''debug''
  a temporary 'hack' command: sets a breakpoint and triggers it.

- ''pic''
  shows the PIC mask, the IRQ's and the address of the ISR.

- ''ints''
  show the interrupt count per interrupt - note that as of this writing,
  IRQs are not counted.

- ''int''
  generate an interrupt.

- ''gdt''
  prints the Global Descriptor Table.

- ''irq''
  prints the IRQ sharing handler matrix. At current the kernel is compiled to
  support up to 8 ISRs per IRQ.

- ''cr''
  prints the contents of the Control Registers ''CR0, CR2, CR3'' and ''CR4''.

- ''sline''
  prints the source line for a given hexadecimal address.

- ''sym''
  for a hex address, prints the source line and symbol name;
  for a symbol name, prints the address.

- ''paging''
  prints the page directory and page tables for either the current task or
  a given pid. Takes an optional argument "''usage''" which shows only the
  pages that have been accessed.

- ''ramdisk''
  Show the contents of the ramdisk.

- ''inspect_str''
  Print the contents at the given memory address (length must also be supplied).

- ''keycode''
  Prints the keycode and character for keypresses.

- ''consoles''
  prints the PID, screen and keyboard buffer addresses, cursor locations,
  and TLS pointers for all active consoles.
  (Note: alt-<DIGIT> will select a console).

- ''classes''
  Prints the class data for all known classes, specifically the extension
  hierarchy, the virtual methods, their overrides, and their implementations.
  Can be filtered by classname.

- ''objects''
  Shows all instantiated objects and their class hierarchy. Can be filtered by classname.
 
- ''obj''
  Show the PCI object counters. These counters are used to construct device names.
 
- ''mem''
  Various memory information, such as reserved/allocated/free memory, the
  ''malloc'' linked list handles, the extended BIOS/ACPI memory map, and the
  kernel code and data layout.

Hardware
--------

- ''dev''
  shows the PCI and ISA devices in brief format.

- ''lspci''
  re-run the PCI query and device object initialisation routines while
  printing detailed information. (not recommended generally!).

- ''pcibus''
  print all PCI devices and PCI bus mappings.
  Note that ''dev'' and ''lspci'' don't print/record all PCI Bridge devices,
  only Function 1.

- ''drivers''
  lists all available PCI drivers.

- ''disks''
  shows all known ATA/ATAPI drives.

- ''listdrives''
  rescans the ATA buses.

- ''nics''
  Shows the configured Network Interface Cards (what you'd expect ''ifconfig'' to do).


Partitions and File Systems
---------------------------
- ''mount'', ''ls'', ''cd'', ''pwd'', ''cat'', ''touch'', ''mkdir''
  The usual.

- ''fdisk''
  Partition table editor. Can also copy the bootloader.

- ''partinfo''
  Show detailed partition info for supported filesystems.

- ''listfs''
  Show supported filesystems (the in-memory ''root'' filesystem,
  ''FAT12/16, ISO9660, SFS, OOFS'')

- ''lsof''
  Show open file handlers from the FS layer.

- ''fat_handles''
  Show detailed FAT handle information for open files on FAT

- ''oofs''
  Database manager for the OOFS file system.

Networking
-----------
- ''nics''
  As said, lists the network cards and their IP's, aswell as hardware specific
  information from the driver.

- ''ifconfig''
  Configure a NIC's IP, netmask, and online status. (In 'Oldskool' mode also
  allows to set up the gateway and automatically update the routing tables).

- ''route''
   Route table editor. See ''kernel/nic.s'' for usage.

- ''ifup'', ''ifdown''
  Invokes the ''nic_api_if(up|down)'' methods on the given NIC. Can also
  be achieved with ''ifconfig ethX up|down''

- ''netdump''
  Network packet analyzer.

- ''ping'', ''hostname'', ''netstat'', ''arp'', ''icmp'', ''traceroute''
  The usual.

- ''dhcp''
  Configure a NIC using DHCP.

- ''zconf''
  Zero-Configuration networking. This is called on boot, and can be used to
  reset the network configuration to it's defaults.

- ''iproute''
  Shows what route would be used to communicate with the given IP.

- ''netstat''
  Shows various network information, such as queues, buffers, sessions etc.


Task Control
------------
The following commands can be found in the 'tasks' section of the ''help'' command.

- ''top'', ''ps'', ''kill''
  similar to *NIX.

- ''bg''
  mark the given task as suspended (non-schedulable).

- ''fg''
  resume the given task.

- ''init''
  executes all non-comment lines in ''/et/init.rc''.

- ''exe''
  loads and executes a PE/COFF binary.

- ''elf''
  loads and executes an Elf binary.

- ''fork''
  On each invocation, starts a new clock 'console widget'. These need to be terminated
  with ''kill'' and can be suspended and resumed with ''bg'' and ''fg''.



Experimental commands:
----------------------
- ''ph''
  ping the VM host (local hardcoded IP for now) once, to fill the ARP table.

- ''p''
  ping the gateway.

- ''shutdown''
  ACPI shutdown, if detected.

- ''reboot''
  generate a triple fault causing a reboot.

- ''sha1''
  calculates the SHA1 hash of the first argument.

- ''base64''
  Encodes and then decodes the first argument as base64.

- ''vmcheck''
  Detects whether the kernel runs in a virtual machine, and if so, establishes
  communication using the VMWare backdoor protocol, which is partially supported
  by QEmu and possibly others aswell.

- ''vmx''
  Detects hardware VMX support. (only tested in a VM, where it always fails).

- ''cloud''
  Cluster management.

- ''gfx''
  Enter/exit graphics mode.

- ''play''
  Play a WAVE audio file.

- ''uptime'', ''date''
  As expected.



Adding shell commands
---------------------

  Shell commands can be added by simply adding a ''SHELL_COMMAND "foo", cmd_foo''
  to the list in ''shell.s'' and implementing the method: ''cmd_foo: ret''


= Detecting memory writes =

The code may enable hardware breakpoints using ''kernel/debugger/hwdebug.s'',
for example:

	mov     eax, data_address
	call    breakpoint_memwrite_dword

Alternatively, use the shell command ''breakpoint''.

  The data address is typically obtained by adding ''DEBUG_DWORD [something]''
  in the code where this address is set up.

  Typically these kinds of breakpoints are only necessary when there is no
  indication of where the memory is written.



= Bootloader debugging =

Tools:
	''alias hdi'' - shows hex dump of the boot image.

	''util/write.cpp'' - creates the image, including the ramdisk.

There is a ''BOOTLOADER_DEBUG'' flag, where higher values represent more
output and generally more keypresses. Debug levels attempt to accomodate
not losing any information on the screen. However there are more debug
sections available that need to be manually enabled once the location
of the bug has been found and the cause is not clear.
You will note that pretty much all debug code is still present, indicating
past trouble-spots, some of them repeatedly occurring. The ones that
did not occur frequenly are those that need to be manually activated.



Debugging Linker and Relocation Issues
======================================

The current GCC fiasco (where their linker tool broke by preserving input
section references in merged output sections, resulting in the kernel's
simplistic relocation mechanism (based on a single value, since the
kernel image is part of the kernel design and must be kept together.),
results in complex debugging, using print statements, and null-loops to
delay resetting of the VM so that these can be read in parts of the code
that have interrupts disabled, since the most troublesome code is the
relocation code combined with the protected mode setup).

Debugging the kernel can be improved by checking certain memory values
(meaning, values stored at a memory address) for boundaries that are
known at compile-time (and thus also at link and relocation time).

The first approach would be to hardcode offsets retrieved from linker
output, i.e. symbol addresses. The debugging code can then simply
check against a symbol, which can be provided to it at runtime,
or earlier, during relocation, or even earlier, during linking.

Ideally we do not want to use the translation part of the symbol
table (i.e. the string labels), but the symbol index - and thus use
a label in the debugging code, to be filled in as a debug parameter.
For, using the string table would increase the complexity of the
debugging code (finding a string in an array), aswell as duplicate
the symbol table's string payload in the image.

We can easily define code boundaries using the image layout. The
image itself proves to be too large relative to the relocation
(0x40000 vs 0x13000) to detect relocation errors. The smallest
margin of error must be the size of the realmode kernel, which is
around 0x4000. Within that, there is a text and data segment, the
smallest boundary.

Possible debug statements:

	ASSERT_BETWEEN [memaddress], TEXT16_LO, TEXT16_HI

The macro would check a label with a hardcoded prefix, such
as `DBG_`. If both contain the special value -1, the macro
does not generate output. The downside of this is that during
compilation, the values must already be known. A two pass
compilation would resolve this, by using the linked values
(calculated based on section sequence, size, and padding),
of the previous compilation. However, the code itself would
not change, as either the debug would be enabled, or not,
during compile time (and changing this flag changes the image
so that the output of the previous build cannot be used).
So, the debug code is compiled in, or not. If it is, then
the values of the debug labels do not matter, since they
can only effect a difference at runtime. The symbol table
combined with the relocation table makes it possible then to
parameterize the debugging statements at runtime (that is,
usually during relocation, which at current occurs in
the bootloader).

Automatic testing is then possible. To change the assertion
parameters, all that is needed is to change a value in the
symbol table (remember that the symbol table contains both
values and strings, although strings can be stripped; relocation
looks to the symbol table to see what value to combine with
the referenced address). (Note: the current symbol table
in the kernel does not yet store the values; it is only
used for string display and symbol resolution at current).

QEmu can be run so as to not restart when the virtual machine
crashes. It can then be executed in a loop, consisting of:

	10: qemu
	20: analyze log
	30: adjust kernel.sym
	40: make boot.img
	50: goto 10

Each assertion statement will have a unique number. This can be
accomplished by the following code:

	.macro ASSERT_BETWEEN ref, bound_lo, bound_hi
		.section .assert
		9998:.long 9999f, 0

		.text
		9999:
			incd	[9998b + 4]
	.endm

This would keep track of which assert statements are executed
if the kernel memory is dumped. Communication of this data
can be built into the kernel; initially it will not dump
all kernel memory, but only a dedicated debug region.
Likely this will be most easily communicated at certain stages,
such as the networked stage. However at this point it merely
becomes application debugging. To debug kernel boot problems,
especially code that executes in no-mans' land - with all interrupts
disabled, all segments invalid, protected mode initialized
but not configured, unsure even of the selector used to write
to video memory is correct - in those circumstances, there is
not even file storage. Hopefully the virtual host debugger has
some way of providing feedback.

The log files generated by QEmu are combined with the `util/ql.pl`
tool, that maps the kernel symbol table on the adjusted instruction
addresses. It can then see when the BIOS is executing, and when
the kernel is executing, and it can trace this until the machine
terminates. The last block is generally not the kernel. Yet, the
scan cannot stop at the first block, because the realmode kernel
makes BIOS calls. So, it will trace backward. For caching, a certain
memory address may be checked against, at which point it is determined
that in all previous executions the BIOS has terminated the machine.
(meaning, we can stop processing the input when we encounter
a certain address; or, more slowly, a block of code). A warning
can be issued and a pattern can automatically be determined (to optimize
the detection speed).

Now that I can see where the kernel ends execution,
(`cat qemu.log | ql.pl | grep -v unknown`),
the source code lines are then also available. Even a stack
trace can be established, not using a stack, but by
tracing calls and jumps. The IDE would then show the
relevant files vertically stacked, each with a window
marking the code from the VM.

Hitting 'Save' would update the source files, rebuild the
kernel, and execute it in a virtual machine in the background
(some macro to execute 'make test').

Ideally the VM will be integrated in the editor, so that it can
offer a rewindable tape of all screen updates.
The VM gets
interrupted whenever the screen is written, as special action
needs to be taken to update the host screen. Some code may
update the screen in a loop. These methods can be automatically
identified and function boundaries ascribed, for the playback
mechanism to consider these sequential changes as a single
frame.


