(Freedom.txt, Funny.txt)

Fork.


A fork represents a choice, go one way or the other.
Continuation is the thread that is not taken, remembered for future continuation.

The scheduler is an interrupt routine that on any input from devices (keyboard,
network, storage, timer), re-evaluates what thread to continue on.

Alternative options to the initial thread can be made known by the schedule_task
method. This allocates a new context of execution: a stack. This stack will be
filled with the current values of all registers (processor state), and used
as context switch parameters.

The registered task is remembered in an array. When there is only one task,
the scheduler will continue executing that task. After scheduling a task,
the soonest moment of execution is the next interrupt. Ofcourse, the registration
of the task can also be used as a pivot moment.


Pivot

int 69, 0x45, 1000101
int 96, 0x60, 1100000	

Pivoting centers around the stack. The stack, at a minimum, needs to contain
the code selector, instruction pointer, and flags.

The IP and EFLAGS are needed only when a task can be interrupted in the middle
of it's execution, 'unbeknownst' to the task. The code selector is needed to
specify the execution context.

A nested task - one that can interrupt its parent task - cannot run on the same stack,
unless this task is cyclical with an identifiable point of neutrality, meaning,
that it's effects on the stack are limited to only changing the content below the
stack pointer. This means, simply put, that the point at which a task is cyclical,
as evaluated from a linear perspective, is when it's stack pointer has returned
to the same value as it had in the beginning.
This task then can be clearly marked by a 'call' instruction, or even an 'int'
instruction. This then means that it's beginning lies not in the addresses
spanning the task's execution, for, the first instruction executed in the new task
will already contain a return address on the stack. Thus, this initial point will
be between the ret and call instructions, or, immediately before the call and after
the return. For, this is the only point that guarantees that the execution of
instructions of the task cannot be altered (malfunction) by changing the contents
of registers. For, if registers change their value between instructions, the intended
function of the task is compromised, as the form of the instructions encodes the meanings
of the values of the registers, which are only relevant (meaningful) within the context
of the task. Injecting and changing register values at random points introduces
meaninglessness which makes the task's purpose meaningless. Further, tasks are
typically programmed to operate within a boundary set by all assumptions formed by
the meanings of the contents of registers. Methods for instance, specify the meanings
of registers, which they then assume to be met with the calling agent, as the method
only specifies it's effect given that it's conditions are satisfied, i.e., that
there is agreement on the meaning of the context (contents of registers and stack).
For any other meaning of these registers, the method is not defined. Applying it anyway
yields results that have not been considered during the encoding of applying an effect.

Thus, the 9 symbolizes a path becoming circular - a cycle or loop. The 6 represents
the opposite, a loop becoming a path. Due to there being two symbols, both cycles
represent the same thing, but the paths have different orientations and thus represent
different paths. This cycle can be smaller than an instruction, from a task's point of
view. The 96 then represents a portal, a vortex, a wormhole, where one linear path
is set cycling - no change - and another that was in a state of no-change is resumed.

Further, the 60 hexadecimal represents the same thing, but it lacks the second path
being unfolded. Also, the direction of the entry in the first cycle comes from the center,
not from a pole, as in 96. The 96 thus is a mirror, whereas the 60 only shows a partial
view. The 6 symbolizes entering the cycle, and the 0 represents the cycle. From
the caller's perspective then, the 60 is a yield, without even an expectation of
another path continuing.

69, symbolizes a similar thing, however, extending the spirals reveals there are two
centers, on the far left and right, of these spirals. In the case of 96, these centers
are in the middle, on the far right, and far left, respectively.


The 0x45 sums to 9, an ending or yielding. Both 69 and 96 sum to 6, in this context,
a beginning (or an ending). 69->6, 0x45->9; 96->6, 0x60->0x6.


