

HostMe 'button' on websites:


Redirect to special url on website.
The website is hosted in a virtual machine.
The page contains an installer for the virtual machine 
and the os - barebones.

The website offers the iso (through torrent).

Either a programmable wrapper around the vm or a network protocol
provides access from the browser to the guest os.

The OS dynamically generates the iso to download. It contains the core
system itself, aswell as the website reference.

On bootup, the guest os automatically connects to the VPN connecting
all guest os-es. It receives a unique number in the network (VPN IP address).

It maintains a list of 'HostMe' websites, one entry provided from the
button pushed on the website.

The virtual machine os runs as a service, with an icon in the taskbar.
The main screen of the OS serves as the userinterface, with fullscreen
mode capability.

When someone clicks a HostMe button and has the os preinstalled,
a browser extension notifies the service, or a LAN address can be used pointing
to the local cluster (or node).


Required software:

	- Installer
	  - automatic virtual machine creation
		- automatic TAP device creation (QEmu)
		- automatic bridging
		or
		- openvpn installation


	VirtualBox:
	- run their installer
	- use their commandline interfaces to set up a virtual machine and TAP device


[Open Virtualization Format - OVF...|http://www.dmtf.org/sites/default/files/standards/documents/DSP-IS0102_1.0.0.pdf]
-----------------------------------
Reading that - very corporate, with billing and such.

So, doing away with all that - a free foundation.

They mention in their salespitch the benefits of cloud management standards:

* quicker 'time to value', whatever that means
* shorter deployment cycles
 
 	Disagree.
 	In a distributed cloud environment, any item inserted in the cloud
 	is automatically distributable throughout the cloud.
 	As such, each program that is able to communicate only with itself
 	is thus its own standard.
 
 	Deployment cycles, which occur after product finalization,
 	are always the same and thus not shorter.

* lower risk and costs
  	nonsense.
* vendor choice
  	as if having no cloud management standards would prevent that.
* foundation for innovation
  	innovation is not done by setting standards, as they are meant
 	to limit deviation from the norm, which is the opposite of innovation.


The foundation for their standards are based on a separation between
consumer and cloud service provider. In the open and free world,
there is no separation.

An attempt has been made to offload functionality to the browsers,
and so the next step would be to have a virtual machine within a browser,
not one that offers only script interpretation but one that can host
an operating system.

At current qemu and QuRe load about as fast as flash, and with a VMX service
that needs to be started once this load is negligible. The OS is small
enough to be downloaded from the website as it is about 60kb, leaving
plenty of room for custom applications. The runtime footprint of the OS itself
is about 300kb (including DNS, HTTP, E-Mail, Persistence), and the runtime
footprint of a virtual machine emulator is (depending on the brand) about 4Mb,
much less than Flash.



